docs/content/ActionMenu.mdx, before:

---
title: ActionMenu
---

An `ActionMenu` is an ActionList-based component for creating a menu of actions that expands through a trigger button.

## Default example

```jsx live
<ActionMenu
  anchorContent="Menu"
  onAction={({text}) => console.log(text)}
  items={[
    {text: 'New file', key: 'new-file'},
    ActionMenu.Divider,
    {text: 'Copy link', key: 'copy-link'},
    {text: 'Edit file', key: 'edit-file'},
    {text: 'Delete file', variant: 'danger', key: 'delete-file'}
  ]}
/>
```

## Example with grouped items

```jsx live
<ActionMenu
  anchorContent="Menu"
  onAction={({text}) => console.log(text)}
  groupMetadata={[
    {groupId: '0'},
    {groupId: '1', header: {title: 'Live query', variant: 'subtle'}},
    {groupId: '2', header: {title: 'Layout', variant: 'subtle'}},
    {groupId: '3'},
    {groupId: '4'}
  ]}
  items={[
    {key: '1', leadingVisual: TypographyIcon, text: 'Rename', groupId: '0'},
    {key: '2', leadingVisual: VersionsIcon, text: 'Duplicate', groupId: '0'},
    {key: '3', leadingVisual: SearchIcon, text: 'repo:github/github', groupId: '1'},
    {
      key: '4',
      leadingVisual: NoteIcon,
      text: 'Table',
      description: 'Information-dense table optimized for operations across teams',
      descriptionVariant: 'block',
      groupId: '2'
    },
    {
      key: '5',
      leadingVisual: ProjectIcon,
      text: 'Board',
      description: 'Kanban-style board focused on visual states',
      descriptionVariant: 'block',
      groupId: '2'
    },
    {
      key: '6',
      leadingVisual: FilterIcon,
      text: 'Save sort and filters to current view',
      disabled: true,
      groupId: '3'
    },
    {key: '7', leadingVisual: FilterIcon, text: 'Save sort and filters to new view', groupId: '3'},
    {key: '8', leadingVisual: GearIcon, text: 'View settings', groupId: '4'}
  ]}
/>
```

## Component props

| Name          | Type                                  |      Default      | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------ | :---------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| items         | `ItemProps[]`                         |    `undefined`    | Required. A list of item objects conforming to the `ActionList.Item` props interface.                                                                                |
| renderItem    | `(props: ItemProps) => JSX.Element`   | `ActionList.Item` | Optional. If defined, each item in `items` will be passed to this function, allowing for `ActionList`-wide custom item rendering.                                    |
| groupMetadata | `GroupProps[]`                        |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, `ActionList` will group `items` into `ActionList.Group`s separated by `ActionList.Divider` according to their `groupId` property.              |
| renderAnchor  | `(props: ButtonProps) => JSX.Element` |     `Button`      | Optional. If defined, provided component will be used to render the menu anchor. Will receive the selected `Item` text as `children` prop when an item is activated. |
| anchorContent | React.ReactNode                       |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, it will be passed to the trigger as the elements child.                                                                                        |
| onAction      | (props: ItemProps) => void            |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, this function will be called when a menu item is activated either by a click or a keyboard press.                                              |

Commit message:

Action Menu can have its open state be controlled externally (#1199)
* Action Menu can be a controlled component with open state

* update docs for ActionMenu

* Create pink-lions-suffer.md

* Handle onAction for DropdownMenu Items (#1194)

* useProvidedStateOrCreate

* linter fixes

* update hook doc comment

* Update src/hooks/useProvidedStateOrCreate.ts

Co-authored-by: Dusty Greif <dgreif@users.noreply.github.com>

* useProvidedOrCreateState has better implementation for generics

* useProvidedOrCreateState has better implementation for generics

* make string type explicit

Co-authored-by: Dusty Greif <dgreif@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/ActionMenu.mdx, after:

---
title: ActionMenu
---

An `ActionMenu` is an ActionList-based component for creating a menu of actions that expands through a trigger button.

## Default example

```jsx live
<ActionMenu
  anchorContent="Menu"
  onAction={({text}) => console.log(text)}
  items={[
    {text: 'New file', key: 'new-file'},
    ActionMenu.Divider,
    {text: 'Copy link', key: 'copy-link'},
    {text: 'Edit file', key: 'edit-file'},
    {text: 'Delete file', variant: 'danger', key: 'delete-file'}
  ]}
/>
```

## Example with grouped items

```jsx live
<ActionMenu
  anchorContent="Menu"
  onAction={({text}) => console.log(text)}
  groupMetadata={[
    {groupId: '0'},
    {groupId: '1', header: {title: 'Live query', variant: 'subtle'}},
    {groupId: '2', header: {title: 'Layout', variant: 'subtle'}},
    {groupId: '3'},
    {groupId: '4'}
  ]}
  items={[
    {key: '1', leadingVisual: TypographyIcon, text: 'Rename', groupId: '0'},
    {key: '2', leadingVisual: VersionsIcon, text: 'Duplicate', groupId: '0'},
    {key: '3', leadingVisual: SearchIcon, text: 'repo:github/github', groupId: '1'},
    {
      key: '4',
      leadingVisual: NoteIcon,
      text: 'Table',
      description: 'Information-dense table optimized for operations across teams',
      descriptionVariant: 'block',
      groupId: '2'
    },
    {
      key: '5',
      leadingVisual: ProjectIcon,
      text: 'Board',
      description: 'Kanban-style board focused on visual states',
      descriptionVariant: 'block',
      groupId: '2'
    },
    {
      key: '6',
      leadingVisual: FilterIcon,
      text: 'Save sort and filters to current view',
      disabled: true,
      groupId: '3'
    },
    {key: '7', leadingVisual: FilterIcon, text: 'Save sort and filters to new view', groupId: '3'},
    {key: '8', leadingVisual: GearIcon, text: 'View settings', groupId: '4'}
  ]}
/>
```

## Component props

| Name          | Type                                  |      Default      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------ | :---------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| items         | `ItemProps[]`                         |    `undefined`    | Required. A list of item objects conforming to the `ActionList.Item` props interface.                                                                                                              |
| renderItem    | `(props: ItemProps) => JSX.Element`   | `ActionList.Item` | Optional. If defined, each item in `items` will be passed to this function, allowing for `ActionList`-wide custom item rendering.                                                                  |
| groupMetadata | `GroupProps[]`                        |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, `ActionList` will group `items` into `ActionList.Group`s separated by `ActionList.Divider` according to their `groupId` property.                                            |
| renderAnchor  | `(props: ButtonProps) => JSX.Element` |     `Button`      | Optional. If defined, provided component will be used to render the menu anchor. Will receive the selected `Item` text as `children` prop when an item is activated.                               |
| anchorContent | React.ReactNode                       |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, it will be passed to the trigger as the elements child.                                                                                                                      |
| onAction      | (props: ItemProps) => void            |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, this function will be called when a menu item is activated either by a click or a keyboard press.                                                                            |
| open          | boolean                               |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, ActionMenu will use this to control the open/closed state of the Overlay instead of controlling the state internally. Should be used in conjunction with the `setOpen` prop. |
| setOpen       | (state: boolean) => void              |    `undefined`    | Optional. If defined, ActionMenu will use this to control the open/closed state of the Overlay instead of controlling the state internally. Should be used in conjunction with the `open` prop.    |
