docs/content/AvatarStack.mdx, before:

---
title: AvatarStack
---

import {Props} from '../src/props'
import {AvatarStack} from '@primer/components'

AvatarStack is used to display more than one Avatar in an inline stack.

### Default example

```jsx live
<AvatarStack>
  <Avatar alt="Primer" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/primer" />
  <Avatar alt="GitHub" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/github" />
  <Avatar alt="Atom" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/atom" />
  <Avatar alt="Desktop" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/desktop" />
</AvatarStack>
```

### Right aligned

```jsx live
<AvatarStack alignRight>
  <Avatar alt="Primer" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/primer" />
  <Avatar alt="GitHub" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/github" />
  <Avatar alt="Atom" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/atom" />
  <Avatar alt="Desktop" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/desktop" />
</AvatarStack>
```

## Props

| Name       | Type              | Default | Description                          |
| :--------- | :---------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------- |
| alignRight | Boolean           |         | Creates right aligned AvatarStack    |
| sx         | SystemStyleObject |   {}    | Style to be applied to the component |

Commit message:

Create component status page (#1656)
* Add status page

* Update component status page

* Add a few components to the global mdx scope

* Add statuses to all components

docs/content/AvatarStack.mdx, after:

---
title: AvatarStack
status: Alpha
description: Use an avatar stack to display two or more avatars in an inline stack.
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/AvatarStack.tsx
---

import {AvatarStack} from '@primer/components'

### Default example

```jsx live
<AvatarStack>
  <Avatar alt="Primer" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/primer" />
  <Avatar alt="GitHub" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/github" />
  <Avatar alt="Atom" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/atom" />
  <Avatar alt="Desktop" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/desktop" />
</AvatarStack>
```

### Right aligned

```jsx live
<AvatarStack alignRight>
  <Avatar alt="Primer" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/primer" />
  <Avatar alt="GitHub" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/github" />
  <Avatar alt="Atom" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/atom" />
  <Avatar alt="Desktop" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/desktop" />
</AvatarStack>
```

## Props

| Name       | Type              | Default | Description                          |
| :--------- | :---------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------- |
| alignRight | Boolean           |         | Creates right aligned AvatarStack    |
| sx         | SystemStyleObject |   {}    | Style to be applied to the component |

## Component status

<ComponentChecklist
  items={{
    propsDocumented: true,
    noUnnecessaryDeps: true,
    adaptsToThemes: true,
    adaptsToScreenSizes: true,
    fullTestCoverage: false,
    usedInProduction: true,
    usageExamplesDocumented: true,
    designReviewed: false,
    a11yReviewed: false,
    stableApi: false,
    addressedApiFeedback: false,
    hasDesignGuidelines: false,
    hasFigmaComponent: false
  }}
/>
