docs/content/Breadcrumbs.md, before:

---
title: Breadcrumbs
---

Breadcrumbs are used to show taxonomical context on pages that are many levels deep in a site’s hierarchy. Breadcrumbs show and link to parent, grandparent, and sometimes great-grandparent pages. Breadcrumbs are most appropriate on pages that:

- Are many levels deep on a site
- Do not have a section-level navigation
- May need the ability to quickly go back to the previous (parent) page

To use Breadcrumb with [react-router](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router) or
[react-router-dom](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-router-dom), pass
`as={NavLink}` and omit the `selected` prop.
This ensures that the NavLink gets `activeClassName='selected'`

## Default example

```jsx live
<Breadcrumb>
  <Breadcrumb.Item href="#business">Business</Breadcrumb.Item>
  <Breadcrumb.Item href="#customers">Customers</Breadcrumb.Item>
  <Breadcrumb.Item href="#mailchimp" selected>
    MailChimp
  </Breadcrumb.Item>
</Breadcrumb>
```

## System props

Breadcrumb and Breadcrumb.Item components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

### Breadcrumb

The `Breadcrumb` component does not receive any additional props besides `COMMON` system props.

### Breadcrumb.Item

| Prop name | Type | Default | Description |
| :- | :- | :-: | :- |
| as        | String  | `a` | Sets the HTML tag for the component              |
| href      | String  | | URL to be used for the Link                      |
| selected  | Boolean | false | Used to style the link as selected or unselected |

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/Breadcrumbs.md, after:

---
title: Breadcrumbs
---

Breadcrumbs are used to show taxonomical context on pages that are many levels deep in a site’s hierarchy. Breadcrumbs show and link to parent, grandparent, and sometimes great-grandparent pages. Breadcrumbs are most appropriate on pages that:

- Are many levels deep on a site
- Do not have a section-level navigation
- May need the ability to quickly go back to the previous (parent) page

To use Breadcrumb with [react-router](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router) or
[react-router-dom](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-router-dom), pass
`as={NavLink}` and omit the `selected` prop.
This ensures that the NavLink gets `activeClassName='selected'`

## Default example

```jsx live
<Breadcrumb>
  <Breadcrumb.Item href="#business">Business</Breadcrumb.Item>
  <Breadcrumb.Item href="#customers">Customers</Breadcrumb.Item>
  <Breadcrumb.Item href="#mailchimp" selected>
    MailChimp
  </Breadcrumb.Item>
</Breadcrumb>
```

## System props

<Note variant="warning">

System props are deprecated in all components except [Box](/Box). Please use the [`sx` prop](/overriding-styles) instead.

</Note>

Breadcrumb and Breadcrumb.Item components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

### Breadcrumb

The `Breadcrumb` component does not receive any additional props besides `COMMON` system props.

### Breadcrumb.Item

| Prop name | Type    | Default | Description                                      |
| :-------- | :------ | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------- |
| as        | String  |   `a`   | Sets the HTML tag for the component              |
| href      | String  |         | URL to be used for the Link                      |
| selected  | Boolean |  false  | Used to style the link as selected or unselected |
