docs/content/Buttons.md, before:

---
title: Buttons
---


`Button` is used for actions, like in forms, while `Link` is used for destinations, or moving from one page to another.

In special cases where you'd like to use a `<a>` styled like a Button, use `<Button as='a'>` and provide an `href`.

To create a button group, wrap `Button` elements in the `ButtonGroup` element. `ButtonGroup` gets the same props as `Box`.

## Default examples

```jsx live
<Button>Button</Button>
<ButtonDanger>Button Danger</ButtonDanger>
<ButtonOutline>Button Outline</ButtonOutline>
<ButtonPrimary>Button Primary</ButtonPrimary>
<ButtonInvisible>Button Invisible</ButtonInvisible>
<ButtonClose onClick={() => window.alert('button clicked')}/>

<ButtonGroup display='block' my={2}>
  <Button>Button</Button>
  <Button>Button</Button>
  <Button>Button</Button>
</ButtonGroup>

<ButtonTableList>Button Table List </ButtonTableList>
```

## System props

`Button` and `ButtonGroup` components get `COMMON` and `LAYOUT` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

Native `<button>` HTML attributes are forwarded to the underlying React `button` component and are not listed below.

### Button
| Prop name | Type | Default | Description |
| :- | :- | :-: | :- |
| as | String | `button` | sets the HTML tag for the component |
| fontSize | Number or String | | explicitly sets the font size for the Button text; overrides any value for the `variant` prop |
| variant | String | 'medium' | a value of `small`, `medium`, or `large` results in smaller or larger Button text size; no effect if `fontSize` prop is set |

### ButtonGroup
`ButtonGroup` has access to the same props as `Box`

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/Buttons.md, after:

---
title: Buttons
---

`Button` is used for actions, like in forms, while `Link` is used for destinations, or moving from one page to another.

In special cases where you'd like to use a `<a>` styled like a Button, use `<Button as='a'>` and provide an `href`.

To create a button group, wrap `Button` elements in the `ButtonGroup` element. `ButtonGroup` gets the same props as `Box`.

## Default examples

```jsx live
<Button>Button</Button>
<ButtonDanger>Button Danger</ButtonDanger>
<ButtonOutline>Button Outline</ButtonOutline>
<ButtonPrimary>Button Primary</ButtonPrimary>
<ButtonInvisible>Button Invisible</ButtonInvisible>
<ButtonClose onClick={() => window.alert('button clicked')}/>

<ButtonGroup display='block' my={2}>
  <Button>Button</Button>
  <Button>Button</Button>
  <Button>Button</Button>
</ButtonGroup>

<ButtonTableList>Button Table List </ButtonTableList>
```

## System props

<Note variant="warning">

System props are deprecated in all components except [Box](/Box). Please use the [`sx` prop](/overriding-styles) instead.

</Note>

`Button` and `ButtonGroup` components get `COMMON` and `LAYOUT` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

Native `<button>` HTML attributes are forwarded to the underlying React `button` component and are not listed below.

### Button

| Prop name | Type             | Default  | Description                                                                                                                 |
| :-------- | :--------------- | :------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| as        | String           | `button` | sets the HTML tag for the component                                                                                         |
| fontSize  | Number or String |          | explicitly sets the font size for the Button text; overrides any value for the `variant` prop                               |
| variant   | String           | 'medium' | a value of `small`, `medium`, or `large` results in smaller or larger Button text size; no effect if `fontSize` prop is set |

### ButtonGroup

`ButtonGroup` has access to the same props as `Box`
