docs/content/Checkbox.mdx, before:

---
title: Checkbox
description: Use checkboxes to toggle between checked and unchecked states in a list or as a standalone form field
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/Checkbox.tsx
storybook: '/react/storybook?path=/story/forms-checkbox--default'
componentId: checkbox
---

## Examples

<Note variant="warning">

**Use [FormControl](/FormControl) to display an accessible checkbox form field**. This `Checkbox` component is intended only as an ingredient for other custom components, or as a drop-in replacement for native HTML checkboxes outside of form use-cases.

If you do use this component to build a custom checkbox, it should always be accompanied by a corresponding `<label>` to improve support for assistive technologies.

</Note>

The `Checkbox` component can be used in controlled and uncontrolled modes.

```jsx live
<form>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox id="default-checkbox" />
    <FormControl.Label>Default checkbox</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox id="always-checked-checkbox" checked />
    <FormControl.Label>Always checked</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox id="always-unchecked-checkbox" />
    <FormControl.Label>Always unchecked</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl disabled>
    <Checkbox id="inactive-checkbox" checked />
    <FormControl.Label>Inactive</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
</form>
```

<Note variant="warning">
  Checkbox components should always be accompanied by a corresponding label to improve support for assistive
  technologies.
</Note>

## Indeterminate

An `indeterminate` checkbox state should be used if the input value is neither true nor false. This can be useful in situations where you are required to display an incomplete state, or one that is dependent on other input selections to determine a value.

```jsx live
<form>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox onChange={() => {}} indeterminate={true} />
    <FormControl.Label>Default checkbox</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={true} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 1</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={false} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 2</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={false} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 3</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={false} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 4</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
</form>
```

## Props

<PropsTable>
  <PropsTableRow
    name="checked"
    type="boolean"
    description="Modifies true/false value of the native checkbox"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="defaultChecked"
    type="boolean"
    description="Checks the input by default in uncontrolled mode"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="onChange"
    type="(event: React.ChangeEvent) => void"
    description="A callback function that is triggered when the checked state has been changed"    
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="disabled"
    type="boolean"
    description="Modifies the native disabled state of the native checkbox"    
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="indeterminate"
    type="boolean"
    defaultValue="false"
    description={
      <>
        Applies an{' '}
        <Link href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#attr-indeterminate">
          indeterminate state
        </Link>{' '}
        to the checkbox
      </>
    }
  />
  <PropsTableBasePropRows
    elementType="input"
    refType="HTMLInputElement"
    passthroughPropsLink={
      <Link href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#additional_attributes">
        MDN
      </Link>
    }
  />

</PropsTable>

## Status

<ComponentChecklist
  items={{
    propsDocumented: true,
    noUnnecessaryDeps: true,
    adaptsToThemes: true,
    adaptsToScreenSizes: true,
    fullTestCoverage: true,
    usedInProduction: false,
    usageExamplesDocumented: false,
    designReviewed: false,
    a11yReviewed: false,
    stableApi: false,
    addressedApiFeedback: false,
    hasDesignGuidelines: false,
    hasFigmaComponent: false
  }}
/>

## Related components

- [CheckboxInputField](/CheckboxInputField)

Commit message:

Correct and improve Storybook and docs for form controls (#2143)
* updates checkbox props tables, storybook stories, and storybook controls

* updates Radio props table, Storybook stories, and Storybook controls

* updates FormControl Storybook stories, and Storybook controls

* updates TextInput and TextInputWithWrapper props tables, Storybook stories, and Storybook controls

* updates Select stories

* fixes more issues with Select stories and prop docs

* updates Textarea prop tables, Storybook stories, and Storybook controls

* updates CheckboxGroup and RadioGroup Storybook stories, and Storybook controls

* updates Autocomplete Storybook stories, and Storybook controls

* fixes 'size' control in TextInput stories

* fixes a11y issues with Autocomplete examples

* updates input stories to use the FormControl component and controls, and updates sidebar to reflect that relationship

* updates tests

* adds changeset

* fix linting issue

* updates after merging from main

* excludes story-helpers.tsx from build

* fixes regression in CheckboxGroup and RadioGroup fixture stories

docs/content/Checkbox.mdx, after:

---
title: Checkbox
description: Use checkboxes to toggle between checked and unchecked states in a list or as a standalone form field
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/Checkbox.tsx
storybook: '/react/storybook?path=/story/form-controls-checkbox--default'
componentId: checkbox
---

## Examples

<Note variant="warning">

**Use [FormControl](/FormControl) to display an accessible checkbox form field**. This `Checkbox` component is intended only as an ingredient for other custom components, or as a drop-in replacement for native HTML checkboxes outside of form use-cases.

If you do use this component to build a custom checkbox, it should always be accompanied by a corresponding `<label>` to improve support for assistive technologies.

</Note>

The `Checkbox` component can be used in controlled and uncontrolled modes.

```jsx live
<form>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox id="default-checkbox" />
    <FormControl.Label>Default checkbox</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox id="always-checked-checkbox" checked />
    <FormControl.Label>Always checked</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox id="always-unchecked-checkbox" />
    <FormControl.Label>Always unchecked</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl disabled>
    <Checkbox id="inactive-checkbox" checked />
    <FormControl.Label>Inactive</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
</form>
```

<Note variant="warning">
  Checkbox components should always be accompanied by a corresponding label to improve support for assistive
  technologies.
</Note>

## Indeterminate

An `indeterminate` checkbox state should be used if the input value is neither true nor false. This can be useful in situations where you are required to display an incomplete state, or one that is dependent on other input selections to determine a value.

```jsx live
<form>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox onChange={() => {}} indeterminate={true} />
    <FormControl.Label>Default checkbox</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={true} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 1</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={false} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 2</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={false} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 3</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
  <FormControl>
    <Checkbox checked={false} onChange={() => {}} />
    <FormControl.Label>Checkbox 4</FormControl.Label>
  </FormControl>
</form>
```

## Props

<PropsTable>
  <PropsTableRow
    name="checked"
    type="boolean"
    description="Modifies true/false value of the native checkbox"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="defaultChecked"
    type="boolean"
    description="Checks the input by default in uncontrolled mode"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="disabled"
    type="boolean"
    description="Modifies the native disabled state of the native checkbox"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="indeterminate"
    type="boolean"
    defaultValue="false"
    description={
      <>
        Applies an{' '}
        <Link href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#attr-indeterminate">
          indeterminate state
        </Link>{' '}
        to the checkbox
      </>
    }
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="onChange"
    type="(event: React.ChangeEvent) => void"
    description="A callback function that is triggered when the checked state has been changed"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="validationStatus"
    type="'error' | 'success' | 'warning'"
    description={
      <>
        Only used to inform ARIA attributes.<br />
        Individual checkboxes do not have validation styles.
      </>
    }
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="value"
    type="string"
    description={
      <>
        A unique value that is never shown to the user.<br />
        Used during form submission and to identify which checkbox inputs are selected.
      </>
    }
  />
  <PropsTableBasePropRows
    elementType="input"
    refType="HTMLInputElement"
    passthroughPropsLink={
      <Link href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#additional_attributes">
        MDN
      </Link>
    }
  />

</PropsTable>

## Status

<ComponentChecklist
  items={{
    propsDocumented: true,
    noUnnecessaryDeps: true,
    adaptsToThemes: true,
    adaptsToScreenSizes: true,
    fullTestCoverage: true,
    usedInProduction: false,
    usageExamplesDocumented: false,
    designReviewed: false,
    a11yReviewed: false,
    stableApi: false,
    addressedApiFeedback: false,
    hasDesignGuidelines: false,
    hasFigmaComponent: false
  }}
/>

## Related components

- [CheckboxInputField](/CheckboxInputField)
