docs/content/CircleBadge.md, before:

---
title: CircleBadge
---


Use CircleBadge to visually connect logos of third party services like in marketplace. Use CircleBadge.Icon to add an Octicon to the CircleBadge.

## Default example

```jsx live
<CircleBadge>
  <CircleBadge.Icon icon={ZapIcon} />
</CircleBadge>
```

## System props

CircleBadge and CircleBadge.Icon components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

### CircleBadge
| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| :- | :- | :-: | :- |
| as | String | `div` | sets the HTML tag for the component |
| inline | Boolean | false | Styles the badge to display inline |
| size | Number | | sets the size of the badge in pixels; overrides any value for `variant` prop when set |
| variant | String | 'medium' | a value of `small`, `medium`, or `large` creates a smaller or larger badge; no effect if `size` prop is set |

### CircleBadge.Icon
CircleBadge.Icon components receive all the same props at [StyledOcticon]. They are listed below for convenience:

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| :- | :- | :-: | :- |
| ariaLabel | String | | Specifies the `aria-label` attribute, which is read verbatim by screen readers |
| icon | Component | | [Octicon component](https://github.com/primer/octicons/tree/master/lib/octicons_react) used in the component |
| size | Number | 16 | Sets the uniform `width` and `height` of the SVG element |
| verticalAlign | String | `text-bottom` | Sets the `vertical-align` CSS property |

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/CircleBadge.md, after:

---
title: CircleBadge
---

Use CircleBadge to visually connect logos of third party services like in marketplace. Use CircleBadge.Icon to add an Octicon to the CircleBadge.

## Default example

```jsx live
<CircleBadge>
  <CircleBadge.Icon icon={ZapIcon} />
</CircleBadge>
```

## System props

<Note variant="warning">

System props are deprecated in all components except [Box](/Box). Please use the [`sx` prop](/overriding-styles) instead.

</Note>

CircleBadge and CircleBadge.Icon components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

### CircleBadge

| Name    | Type    | Default  | Description                                                                                                 |
| :------ | :------ | :------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| as      | String  |  `div`   | sets the HTML tag for the component                                                                         |
| inline  | Boolean |  false   | Styles the badge to display inline                                                                          |
| size    | Number  |          | sets the size of the badge in pixels; overrides any value for `variant` prop when set                       |
| variant | String  | 'medium' | a value of `small`, `medium`, or `large` creates a smaller or larger badge; no effect if `size` prop is set |

### CircleBadge.Icon

CircleBadge.Icon components receive all the same props at [StyledOcticon]. They are listed below for convenience:

| Name          | Type      |    Default    | Description                                                                                                  |
| :------------ | :-------- | :-----------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ariaLabel     | String    |               | Specifies the `aria-label` attribute, which is read verbatim by screen readers                               |
| icon          | Component |               | [Octicon component](https://github.com/primer/octicons/tree/master/lib/octicons_react) used in the component |
| size          | Number    |      16       | Sets the uniform `width` and `height` of the SVG element                                                     |
| verticalAlign | String    | `text-bottom` | Sets the `vertical-align` CSS property                                                                       |
