docs/content/Flash.md, before:

---
title: Flash
---

The Flash component informs users of successful or pending actions.

## Default example

```jsx live
<Flash>Default Flash</Flash>
<Flash variant="success">Success Flash</Flash>
<Flash variant="warning">Warning Flash</Flash>
<Flash variant="danger">Danger Flash</Flash>
```

## With an icon

Flash components with icons inside of them will automatically set the correct color for the icon depending on the type of Flash, as well as applying the correct right margin.

```jsx live
<Flash variant="success">
  <StyledOcticon icon={CheckIcon}/>
  Success!
</Flash>
```

## System props

Flash components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| :- | :- | :-: | :- |
| full | Boolean | | Creates a full width Flash component|
| variant | String | default | Can be one of `default`, `success`, `warning`, or `danger` - sets the background color and border of the Flash component |

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/Flash.md, after:

---
title: Flash
---

The Flash component informs users of successful or pending actions.

## Default example

```jsx live
<Flash>Default Flash</Flash>
<Flash variant="success">Success Flash</Flash>
<Flash variant="warning">Warning Flash</Flash>
<Flash variant="danger">Danger Flash</Flash>
```

## With an icon

Flash components with icons inside of them will automatically set the correct color for the icon depending on the type of Flash, as well as applying the correct right margin.

```jsx live
<Flash variant="success">
  <StyledOcticon icon={CheckIcon} />
  Success!
</Flash>
```

## System props

<Note variant="warning">

System props are deprecated in all components except [Box](/Box). Please use the [`sx` prop](/overriding-styles) instead.

</Note>

Flash components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

| Name    | Type    | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| :------ | :------ | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| full    | Boolean |         | Creates a full width Flash component                                                                                     |
| variant | String  | default | Can be one of `default`, `success`, `warning`, or `danger` - sets the background color and border of the Flash component |
