docs/content/FormGroup.md, before:

---
title: FormGroup
---

Adds styles for multiple form elements used together.

## Default example

```jsx live
<FormGroup>
  <FormGroup.Label htmlFor="example-text">Example text</FormGroup.Label>
  <TextInput id="example-text" value="Example Value" />
</FormGroup>

<FormGroup>
  <FormGroup.Label htmlFor="example-text-b">Example text</FormGroup.Label>
  <TextInput id="example-text-b" value="Example Value" />
</FormGroup>
```

## System props

FormGroup components get `COMMON` system props. FormGroup.Label components get `COMMON` and `TYPOGRAPHY` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

### FormGroup

| Name | Type   | Default | Description                         |
| :--- | :----- | :-----: | :---------------------------------- |
| as   | String |  `div`  | Sets the HTML tag for the component |

### FormGroup.Label

| Name | Type   | Default | Description                         |
| :--- | :----- | :-----: | :---------------------------------- |
| as   | String |  `label`  | Sets the HTML tag for the component |
| htmlFor | String |  | The value of `htmlFor` needs to be the same as the `id` of the input it labels |

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/FormGroup.md, after:

---
title: FormGroup
---

Adds styles for multiple form elements used together.

## Default example

```jsx live
<FormGroup>
  <FormGroup.Label htmlFor="example-text">Example text</FormGroup.Label>
  <TextInput id="example-text" value="Example Value" />
</FormGroup>

<FormGroup>
  <FormGroup.Label htmlFor="example-text-b">Example text</FormGroup.Label>
  <TextInput id="example-text-b" value="Example Value" />
</FormGroup>
```

## System props

<Note variant="warning">

System props are deprecated in all components except [Box](/Box). Please use the [`sx` prop](/overriding-styles) instead.

</Note>

FormGroup components get `COMMON` system props. FormGroup.Label components get `COMMON` and `TYPOGRAPHY` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

### FormGroup

| Name | Type   | Default | Description                         |
| :--- | :----- | :-----: | :---------------------------------- |
| as   | String |  `div`  | Sets the HTML tag for the component |

### FormGroup.Label

| Name    | Type   | Default | Description                                                                    |
| :------ | :----- | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| as      | String | `label` | Sets the HTML tag for the component                                            |
| htmlFor | String |         | The value of `htmlFor` needs to be the same as the `id` of the input it labels |
