docs/content/Heading.md, before:

---
title: Heading
status: Alpha
---

The Heading component will render an html `h2` tag without any default styling. Other heading level elements `h1-h6` are available through use of the `as` prop (see [System Props](/system-props) for additional explanation). Please reference the [w3 recommendations for headings](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/headings/) to ensure your headings provide an accessible experience for screen reader users.

**Attention:** Make sure to include a valid heading element to render a Heading component other than `h2` (`<Heading as="h1">H1 Element</Heading>`).

## Default example

```jsx live
<Heading fontSize={1} mb={2}>
  H2 heading with fontSize={1}
</Heading>
```

## System props

Heading components get `TYPOGRAPHY` and `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

| Prop name | Type                    | Description                         |
| :-------- | :---------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| as        | String or React element | sets the HTML tag for the component |

Commit message:

Avatar, BranchName, Details, Heading, and ProgressBar no longer accept styled-system props. (#1643)

docs/content/Heading.md, after:

---
title: Heading
status: Alpha
---

The Heading component will render an html `h2` tag without any default styling. Other heading level elements `h1-h6` are available through use of the `as` prop (see [System Props](/system-props) for additional explanation). Please reference the [w3 recommendations for headings](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/headings/) to ensure your headings provide an accessible experience for screen reader users.

**Attention:** Make sure to include a valid heading element to render a Heading component other than `h2` (`<Heading as="h1">H1 Element</Heading>`).

## Default example

```jsx live
<Heading sx={{fontSize: 1, mb: 2}}>H2 heading with fontSize={1}</Heading>
```

## Component props

| Name | Type                    | Default | Description                          |
| :--- | :---------------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------- |
| as   | String or React element |         | sets the HTML tag for the component  |
| sx   | SystemStyleObject       |   {}    | Style to be applied to the component |
