docs/content/Overlay.mdx, before:

---
title: Overlay
---

An `Overlay` is a flexible floating surface, used to display transient content such as menus, selection options, dialogs, and more. Overlays use shadows to express elevation. The `Overlay` component handles all behaviors needed by overlay UIs as well as the common styles that all overlays should have. `Overlay` is the base component for many of our overlay-type components.

Behaviors include:

- Rendering the overlay in a React Portal so that it always renders on top of other content on the page
- Trapping focus
- Calling a user provided function when the user presses `Escape`
- Calling a user provided function when the user clicks outside of the container
- Focusing either user provided element, or the first focusable element in the container when it is opened
- Returning focus to an element when container is closed

## Accessibility considerations

- The `Overlay` must either have:
  - A value set for the `aria-labelledby` attribute that refers to a visible title.
  - An `aria-label` attribute
- If the `Overlay` should also have a longer description, use `aria-describedby`
- The `Overlay` component has a `role="dialog"` set on it, if you are using `Overlay` for alerts, you can pass in `role="alertdialog"` instead. Please read the [W3C guidelines](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#alertdialog) to determine which role is best for your use case
- The `Overlay` component has `aria-modal` set to `true` by default and should not be overridden as all `Overlay`s behave as modals.

See the W3C accessibility recommendations for modals [here](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#dialog_roles_states_props).

## Default example

```javascript live noinline
const Demo = () => {
  // you must manage your own open state
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = React.useState(false)
  const noButtonRef = React.useRef(null)
  const anchorRef = React.useRef(null)
  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={anchorRef} onClick={() => setIsOpen(!isOpen)}>
        open overlay
      </Button>
      {/* be sure to conditionally render the Overlay. This helps with performance and is required. */}
      {isOpen && (
        <Overlay
          initialFocusRef={noButtonRef}
          returnFocusRef={anchorRef}
          ignoreClickRefs={[anchorRef]}
          onEscape={() => setIsOpen(!isOpen)}
          onClickOutside={() => setIsOpen(false)}
          aria-labelledby="title"
        >
          <Flex flexDirection="column" p={2}>
            <Text id="title">Are you sure you would like to delete this item?</Text>
            <Button>yes</Button>
            <Button ref={noButtonRef}>no</Button>
          </Flex>
        </Overlay>
      )}
    </>
  )
}

render(<Demo />)
```

## System props

`Overlay` gets `COMMON` system props. Read the [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

| Name            | Type                              |   Default   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ignoreClickRefs | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement> []` | `undefined` | Optional. An array of ref objects to ignore clicks on in the `onOutsideClick` behavior. This is often used to ignore clicking on the element that toggles the open/closed state for the `Overlay` to prevent the `Overlay` from being toggled twice.                            |
| initialFocusRef | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>`    | `undefined` | Optional. Ref for the element to focus when the `Overlay` is opened. If nothing is provided, the first focusable element in the `Overlay` body is focused.                                                                                                                      |
| anchorRef       | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>`    | `undefined` | Required. Element the `Overlay` should be anchored to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| returnFocusRef  | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>`    | `undefined` | Required. Ref for the element to focus when the `Overlay` is closed.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| onClickOutside  | `function`                        | `undefined` | Required. Function to call when clicking outside of the `Overlay`. Typically this function sets the `Overlay` visibility state to `false`.                                                                                                                                      |
| onEscape        | `function`                        | `undefined` | Required. Function to call when user presses `Escape`. Typically this function sets the `Overlay` visibility state to `false`.                                                                                                                                                  |
| width           | `'small' │ 'medium' │ 'large' │ 'xlarge' │ 'xxlarge' │ 'auto'` |   `auto`    | Sets the width of the `Overlay`, pick from our set list of widths, or pass `auto` to automatically set the width based on the content of the `Overlay`. `small` corresponds to `256px`, `medium` corresponds to `320px`, `large` corresponds to `480px`, `xlarge` corresponds to `640px`, `xxlarge` corresponds to `960px`. |
| height          | `'xsmall', 'small', 'medium', 'large', 'xlarge', 'auto'`               |   `auto`    | Sets the height of the `Overlay`, pick from our set list of heights, or pass `auto` to automatically set the height based on the content of the `Overlay`. `xsmall` corresponds to `192px`, `small` corresponds to `256px`, `medium` corresponds to `320px`, `large` corresponds to `432px`, `xlarge` corresponds to `600px`.                                                         |
| visibility      | `'visible', 'hidden'`             |  `visible`  | Sets the visibility of the `Overlay`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Commit message:

feat(Overlay): slide away from anchor based on position (#1322)
* feat(Overlay): slide away from anchor based on position

* fix: handle position changes when re-opening AnchoredOverlay

* refactor: use js animation for slide to fix safari

* fix: Tests were failing with Axe violations

- https://dequeuniversity.com/rules/axe/4.1/aria-dialog-name
- https://dequeuniversity.com/rules/axe/4.2/presentation-role-conflict
- https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/menu-button/menu-button-links.html

First, 'Overlay's aren’t 'listbox'es, because (when used in 'DropdownMenu' or 'ActionMenu') they contain 'menuitem's, 'menuitemradio's, or 'menuitemcheckbox'es.

Second, 'Overlay's aren’t 'dialog's, because (as demonstrated in the WAI ARIA practices page linked above), 'menu's need not be contained in a 'dialog', and also (as noted in the 'aria-dialog-name' link above), 'dialog's must have an 'aria-label', 'aria-labelledby', or 'title', but neither 'DropdownMenu' nor 'ActionMenu' have any kind of header element that could be used for this.

Third, if 'Overlay's are 'none', they can’t be focusable (as noted in the 'presentation-role-conflict' link above), but one of our hooks (maybe 'FocusTrap', maybe 'FocusZone') was setting 'tabIndex' to '0' (in the test component), because it did not contain a focusable child. This PR adds a focusable button child so the 'none' 'Overlay' container won’t receive 'tabIndex' '0'.

* fix: Resolve lint errors

Co-authored-by: Clay Miller <clay@smockle.com>

docs/content/Overlay.mdx, after:

---
title: Overlay
---

An `Overlay` is a flexible floating surface, used to display transient content such as menus, selection options, dialogs, and more. Overlays use shadows to express elevation. The `Overlay` component handles all behaviors needed by overlay UIs as well as the common styles that all overlays should have. `Overlay` is the base component for many of our overlay-type components.

Behaviors include:

- Rendering the overlay in a React Portal so that it always renders on top of other content on the page
- Trapping focus
- Calling a user provided function when the user presses `Escape`
- Calling a user provided function when the user clicks outside of the container
- Focusing either user provided element, or the first focusable element in the container when it is opened
- Returning focus to an element when container is closed

## Accessibility considerations

- The `Overlay` must either have:
  - A value set for the `aria-labelledby` attribute that refers to a visible title.
  - An `aria-label` attribute
- If the `Overlay` should also have a longer description, use `aria-describedby`
- The `Overlay` component has a `role="dialog"` set on it, if you are using `Overlay` for alerts, you can pass in `role="alertdialog"` instead. Please read the [W3C guidelines](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#alertdialog) to determine which role is best for your use case
- The `Overlay` component has `aria-modal` set to `true` by default and should not be overridden as all `Overlay`s behave as modals.

See the W3C accessibility recommendations for modals [here](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#dialog_roles_states_props).

## Default example

```javascript live noinline
const Demo = () => {
  // you must manage your own open state
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = React.useState(false)
  const noButtonRef = React.useRef(null)
  const anchorRef = React.useRef(null)
  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={anchorRef} onClick={() => setIsOpen(!isOpen)}>
        open overlay
      </Button>
      {/* be sure to conditionally render the Overlay. This helps with performance and is required. */}
      {isOpen && (
        <Overlay
          initialFocusRef={noButtonRef}
          returnFocusRef={anchorRef}
          ignoreClickRefs={[anchorRef]}
          onEscape={() => setIsOpen(!isOpen)}
          onClickOutside={() => setIsOpen(false)}
          aria-labelledby="title"
        >
          <Flex flexDirection="column" p={2}>
            <Text id="title">Are you sure you would like to delete this item?</Text>
            <Button>yes</Button>
            <Button ref={noButtonRef}>no</Button>
          </Flex>
        </Overlay>
      )}
    </>
  )
}

render(<Demo />)
```

## System props

`Overlay` gets `COMMON` system props. Read the [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

| Name            | Type                              |   Default   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------------- | :---------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ignoreClickRefs | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement> []` | `undefined` | Optional. An array of ref objects to ignore clicks on in the `onOutsideClick` behavior. This is often used to ignore clicking on the element that toggles the open/closed state for the `Overlay` to prevent the `Overlay` from being toggled twice.                            |
| initialFocusRef | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>`    | `undefined` | Optional. Ref for the element to focus when the `Overlay` is opened. If nothing is provided, the first focusable element in the `Overlay` body is focused.                                                                                                                      |
| anchorRef       | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>`    | `undefined` | Required. Element the `Overlay` should be anchored to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| returnFocusRef  | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>`    | `undefined` | Required. Ref for the element to focus when the `Overlay` is closed.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| onClickOutside  | `function`                        | `undefined` | Required. Function to call when clicking outside of the `Overlay`. Typically this function removes the Overlay.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| onEscape        | `function`                        | `undefined` | Required. Function to call when user presses `Escape`. Typically this function removes the Overlay.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| width           | `'small' │ 'medium' │ 'large' │ 'xlarge' │ 'xxlarge' │ 'auto'` |   `auto`    | Sets the width of the `Overlay`, pick from our set list of widths, or pass `auto` to automatically set the width based on the content of the `Overlay`. `small` corresponds to `256px`, `medium` corresponds to `320px`, `large` corresponds to `480px`, `xlarge` corresponds to `640px`, `xxlarge` corresponds to `960px`. |
| height          | `'xsmall', 'small', 'medium', 'large', 'xlarge', 'auto'`               |   `auto`    | Sets the height of the `Overlay`, pick from our set list of heights, or pass `auto` to automatically set the height based on the content of the `Overlay`. `xsmall` corresponds to `192px`, `small` corresponds to `256px`, `medium` corresponds to `320px`, `large` corresponds to `432px`, `xlarge` corresponds to `600px`.                                                         |
| anchorSide      | `AnchorSide`                      |  undefined  | Optional. If provided, the Overlay will slide into position from the side of the anchor with a brief animation                                                                                                                                                                  |
