docs/content/overriding-styles.mdx, before:

---
title: Overriding styles with the sx prop
---

Our goal with Primer React is to hit the sweet spot between providing too little and too much styling flexibility; too little and the design system is too rigid, and too much and it becomes too difficult to maintain a consistent style. Our components already support a standard set of [system props](/system-props), but sometimes a component just isn't _quite_ flexible enough to look the way you need it to look. For those cases, we provide the `sx` prop.

The `sx` prop allows ad-hoc styling that is still theme aware. Declare the styles you want to apply in camel-cased object notation, and try to use theme values in appropriate CSS properties when possible. If you've passed a custom theme using `ThemeProvider` or a `theme` prop, the `sx` prop will honor the custom theme. For more information on theming in Primer React, check out [the Primer Theme documentation](/primer-theme).

## When to use the `sx` prop

The `sx` prop provides a lot of power, which means it is an easy tool to abuse. To best make use of it, we recommend following these guidelines:

- Use the `sx` prop for small stylistic changes to components. For more substantial changes, consider abstracting your style changes into your own wrapper component.
- Use [system props](/system-props) instead of the `sx` prop whenever possible.
- Avoid nesting and pseudo-selectors in `sx` prop values when possible.

## Basic example

This example demonstrates applying a bottom border to `Heading`, a component that does not receive `BORDER` system props. The `borderBottomWidth` value comes from `theme.borderWidths` and `borderBottomColor` comes from `theme.colors`.

```jsx live
<Heading pb={2}>Heading</Heading>

<Heading
  pb={2}
  sx={{
    borderBottomWidth: 1,
    borderBottomColor: 'border.primary',
    borderBottomStyle: 'solid'
  }}>
    Heading with bottom border
</Heading>
```

## Responsive values

Just like [values passed to system props](https://styled-system.com/responsive-styles), values in the `sx` prop can be provided as arrays to provide responsive styling.

```jsx live
<Box
  borderWidth="1px"
  borderStyle="solid"
  borderColor="border.primary"
  borderRadius={2}
  p={2}
  sx={{
    bg: ['bg.primary', 'bg.info', 'bg.success', 'bg.warning', 'bg.danger']
  }}
>
  Responsive background color
</Box>
```

## Nesting, pseudo-classes, and pseudo-elements

The `sx` prop also allows for declaring styles based on media queries, psueudo-classes, and pseudo-elements. This example, though contrived, demonstrates the ability:

```jsx live
<Box
  sx={{
    '> *': {
      borderWidth: 1,
      borderColor: 'border.primary',
      borderStyle: 'solid',
      borderBottomWidth: 0,
      padding: 2,
      ':last-child': {
        borderBottomWidth: 1
      },
      ':hover': {
        bg: 'border.tertiary'
      }
    }
  }}
>
  <Box>First</Box>
  <Box>Second</Box>
  <Box>Third</Box>
</Box>
```

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/overriding-styles.mdx, after:

---
title: Overriding styles with the sx prop
---

Our goal with Primer React is to hit the sweet spot between providing too little and too much styling flexibility; too little and the design system is too rigid, and too much and it becomes too difficult to maintain a consistent style. Our components are designed to cover common usage patterns, but sometimes a component just isn't _quite_ flexible enough to look the way you need it to look. For those cases, we provide the `sx` prop.

The `sx` prop allows ad-hoc styling that is still theme-aware. Declare the styles you want to apply in camel-cased object notation, and try to use theme values in appropriate CSS properties when possible. If you've passed a custom theme using `ThemeProvider` or a `theme` prop, the `sx` prop will honor the custom theme. For more information on theming in Primer React, check out [the Primer Theme documentation](/primer-theme).

## When to use the `sx` prop

The `sx` prop provides a lot of power, which means it is an easy tool to abuse. To best make use of it, we recommend following these guidelines:

- Use the `sx` prop for small stylistic changes to components. For more substantial changes, consider abstracting your style changes into your own wrapper component.
- Use [system props](/system-props) instead of the `sx` prop whenever possible.
- Avoid nesting and pseudo-selectors in `sx` prop values when possible.

## Basic example

This example demonstrates applying a bottom border to `Heading`, a component that does not receive `BORDER` system props. The `borderBottomWidth` value comes from `theme.borderWidths` and `borderBottomColor` comes from `theme.colors`.

```jsx live
<Heading pb={2}>Heading</Heading>

<Heading
  pb={2}
  sx={{
    borderBottomWidth: 1,
    borderBottomColor: 'border.primary',
    borderBottomStyle: 'solid'
  }}>
    Heading with bottom border
</Heading>
```

## Responsive values

Just like [values passed to system props](https://styled-system.com/responsive-styles), values in the `sx` prop can be provided as arrays to provide responsive styling.

```jsx live
<Box
  borderWidth="1px"
  borderStyle="solid"
  borderColor="border.primary"
  borderRadius={2}
  p={2}
  sx={{
    bg: ['bg.primary', 'bg.info', 'bg.success', 'bg.warning', 'bg.danger']
  }}
>
  Responsive background color
</Box>
```

## Nesting, pseudo-classes, and pseudo-elements

The `sx` prop also allows for declaring styles based on media queries, psueudo-classes, and pseudo-elements. This example, though contrived, demonstrates the ability:

```jsx live
<Box
  sx={{
    '> *': {
      borderWidth: 1,
      borderColor: 'border.primary',
      borderStyle: 'solid',
      borderBottomWidth: 0,
      padding: 2,
      ':last-child': {
        borderBottomWidth: 1
      },
      ':hover': {
        bg: 'border.tertiary'
      }
    }
  }}
>
  <Box>First</Box>
  <Box>Second</Box>
  <Box>Third</Box>
</Box>
```
