docs/content/ProgressBar.mdx, before:

---
title: ProgressBar
componentId: progress_bar
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/ProgressBar.tsx
---

## Default example

```jsx live
<ProgressBar progress={80} />
```

If you'd like to use ProgressBar inline, pass the `inline` boolean prop & **be sure to set a width**.

```jsx live
<>
  <Text mr={3}>5 of 10</Text>
  <ProgressBar progress={50} inline sx={{width: '100px'}} />
</>
```

## Component props

| Name     | Type    |       Default       | Description                                                                                                                      |
| :------- | :------ | :-----------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| progress | Number  |                     | Used to set the size of the green bar                                                                                            |
| barSize  | String  |      'default'      | Controls the height of the progress bar. Can be 'small', 'large', or 'default'. If omitted, height is set to the default height. |
| inline   | Boolean |        false        | Styles the progress bar inline                                                                                                   |
| bg       | String  | 'bg.successInverse' | Set the progress bar color, defaults to bg-green                                                                                 |

Commit message:

Avatar, BranchName, Details, Heading, and ProgressBar no longer accept styled-system props. (#1643)

docs/content/ProgressBar.mdx, after:

---
title: ProgressBar
componentId: progress_bar
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/ProgressBar.tsx
---

## Default example

```jsx live
<ProgressBar progress={80} />
```

If you'd like to use ProgressBar inline, pass the `inline` boolean prop & **be sure to set a width**.

```jsx live
<>
  <Text mr={3}>5 of 10</Text>
  <ProgressBar progress={50} inline sx={{width: '100px'}} />
</>
```

## Component props

| Name     | Type              |       Default       | Description                                                                                                                      |
| :------- | :---------------- | :-----------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| progress | Number            |                     | Used to set the size of the green bar                                                                                            |
| barSize  | String            |      'default'      | Controls the height of the progress bar. Can be 'small', 'large', or 'default'. If omitted, height is set to the default height. |
| inline   | Boolean           |        false        | Styles the progress bar inline                                                                                                   |
| bg       | String            | 'bg.successInverse' | Set the progress bar color, defaults to bg-green                                                                                 |
| sx       | SystemStyleObject |         {}          | Style to be applied to the component                                                                                             |
