docs/content/TextInput.md, before:

---
title: TextInput
---

TextInput is a form component to add default styling to the native text input.

**Note:** Don't forget to set `aria-label` to make the TextInput accessible to screen reader users.
## Default example

```jsx live
<TextInput aria-label="Zipcode" name="zipcode" placeholder="Zipcode" autoComplete="postal-code" />

<TextInput  ml={4} aria-label="City" name="city" placeholder="City" contrast />

<TextInput ml={4} icon={SearchIcon} aria-label="Zipcode" name="zipcode" placeholder="Find user" autoComplete="postal-code" />
```

## System props

TextInput components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

Native `<input>` attributes are forwarded to the underlying React `input` component and are not listed below.

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| :- | :- | :-: | :- |
| aria-label | String | | Required. Allows input to be accessible. |
| block | Boolean | | Adds `display: block` to element |
| contrast | Boolean | | Changes background color to a higher contrast color |
| variant | String | | Can be either `small` or `large`. Creates a smaller or larger input than the default.
| width | String or Number | | Set the width of the input |
| maxWidth | String or Number or [Array](https://styled-system.com/guides/array-props) | | Set the maximum width of the input |
| minWidth | String or Number or [Array](https://styled-system.com/guides/array-props) | | Set the minimum width of the input |
| icon | Node (pass Octicon react component) | | Icon to be used inside of input. Positioned on the left edge. |

Commit message:

Deprecate system props, but don't remove system props (#1336)
* deprecate system props

* failing spec to combine sx props

* combine sx props when there is an existing sx prop in code mod

* respect spreads in system prop codemod

* run tests in codemods and in src

* changeset with codemod documentation

* respect string literal keys

* respect object accessors with spreads

* update documentations in changeset

* update documentations in changeset

* Update deprecation warning

* Update StyledOcticon docs

* Update system prop and sx prop docs

* Update changeset

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/TextInput.md, after:

---
title: TextInput
---

TextInput is a form component to add default styling to the native text input.

**Note:** Don't forget to set `aria-label` to make the TextInput accessible to screen reader users.

## Default example

```jsx live
<TextInput aria-label="Zipcode" name="zipcode" placeholder="Zipcode" autoComplete="postal-code" />

<TextInput  sx={{ml: 4}} aria-label="City" name="city" placeholder="City" contrast />

<TextInput sx={{ml: 4}} icon={SearchIcon} aria-label="Zipcode" name="zipcode" placeholder="Find user" autoComplete="postal-code" />
```

## System props

<Note variant="warning">

System props are deprecated in all components except [Box](/Box). Please use the [`sx` prop](/overriding-styles) instead.

</Note>

TextInput components get `COMMON` system props. Read our [System Props](/system-props) doc page for a full list of available props.

## Component props

Native `<input>` attributes are forwarded to the underlying React `input` component and are not listed below.

| Name       | Type                                                                      | Default | Description                                                                           |
| :--------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :-----: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| aria-label | String                                                                    |         | Required. Allows input to be accessible.                                              |
| block      | Boolean                                                                   |         | Adds `display: block` to element                                                      |
| contrast   | Boolean                                                                   |         | Changes background color to a higher contrast color                                   |
| variant    | String                                                                    |         | Can be either `small` or `large`. Creates a smaller or larger input than the default. |
| width      | String or Number                                                          |         | Set the width of the input                                                            |
| maxWidth   | String or Number or [Array](https://styled-system.com/guides/array-props) |         | Set the maximum width of the input                                                    |
| minWidth   | String or Number or [Array](https://styled-system.com/guides/array-props) |         | Set the minimum width of the input                                                    |
| icon       | Node (pass Octicon react component)                                       |         | Icon to be used inside of input. Positioned on the left edge.                         |
