docs/content/Textarea.mdx, before:

---
componentId: textarea
title: Textarea
description: Use Textarea for multi-line text input form fields
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/Textarea.tsx
storybook: /react/storybook?path=/story/forms-textarea--default
---

import {Textarea} from '@primer/react'

<Box sx={{border: '1px solid', borderColor: 'border.default', borderRadius: 2, padding: 6, marginBottom: 3}}>
  <Textarea />
</Box>

```js
import {Textarea} from '@primer/react'
```

## Examples

<Note variant="warning">

Textarea components **must always** be accompanied by a corresponding label to improve support for assistive
technologies. Examples below are provided for conciseness and may not reflect accessibility best practices.

</Note>

### Controlled mode

```javascript live noinline
const TextareaExample = () => {
  // Running in controlled mode (recommended)
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState('')

  const handleChange = event => {
    setValue(event.target.value)
  }

  return <Textarea placeholder="Enter a description" onChange={handleChange} value={value} />
}

render(<TextareaExample />)
```

### Uncontrolled mode

```javascript live noinline
const TextareaExample = () => {
  const ref = React.useRef()

  const handleSubmit = event => {
    event.preventDefault()
    if (!ref.current.value) {
      alert(`Enter a value into the Textarea and press submit`)
      return
    }

    alert(`Current Textarea value: ${ref.current.value}`)
  }

  return (
    <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
      <Textarea
        cols={40}
        rows={8}
        ref={ref}
        defaultValue="Set the initial state in uncontrolled mode using the defaultValue prop"
      />
      <br />
      <Button type="submit">Submit</Button>
    </form>
  )
}

render(<TextareaExample />)
```

### Displaying form validation state

```jsx live
<>
  <Box as="label" htmlFor="success-state" sx={{display: 'block'}}>
    Success state:
  </Box>
  <Textarea id="success-state" validationStatus="success" />
  <Box as="label" htmlFor="error-state" sx={{display: 'block', mt: 5}}>
    Error state:
  </Box>
  <Textarea id="error-state" validationStatus="error" />
</>
```

### Inactive

```jsx live
<>
  <Textarea disabled>This text is inactive</Textarea>
</>
```

### Resize

By default, `Textarea` can be resized by the user vertically and horizontally. Resizing can be prevented by setting `resize` to `none`

```jsx live
<Textarea cols={40} resize="none" />
```

### Custom styling

```jsx live
<>
  <Textarea sx={{marginBottom: 2}} />
  <p>Custom styles like `margin` and `padding` can be applied using the `sx` prop</p>
</>
```

## Props

### Textarea

<PropsTable>
  <PropsTableRow
    name="required"
    type="boolean"
    description="Indicates to the user and assistive technologies that the field value is required"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="cols"
    type="number"
    description="Specifies the visible width of a text area."
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="rows"
    type="number"
    description="Specifies the visible height of a text area."
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="block"
    type="boolean"
    defaultValue="false"
    description="Expands with width of the component to fill the parent elements"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="resize"
    type="'both' | 'horizontal' | 'vertical' | 'none'"
    defaultValue="'both'"
    description="Changes background color to a higher contrast color"
  />
  <PropsTableRow name="validationStatus"  
    type="'success' | 'error' | undefined" 
    description="Style the textarea to match the current form validation status"
  />
  <PropsTableRefRow
    elementType="textarea"
    refType="HTMLTextAreaElement"
  />
  <PropsTablePassthroughPropsRow
    elementName="textarea"
    passthroughPropsLink={
      <Link href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/textarea#attributes">MDN</Link>
    }
  />

</PropsTable>

## Status

<ComponentChecklist
  items={{
    propsDocumented: true,
    noUnnecessaryDeps: true,
    adaptsToThemes: true,
    adaptsToScreenSizes: true,
    fullTestCoverage: true,
    usedInProduction: false,
    usageExamplesDocumented: true,
    hasStorybookStories: true,
    designReviewed: false,
    a11yReviewed: false,
    stableApi: false,
    addressedApiFeedback: false,
    hasDesignGuidelines: false,
    hasFigmaComponent: false
  }}
/>

Commit message:

FormControl follow-ups (#1850)
* passes appearance prop to properly render validation

* changes 'appearance' prop to 'variant', and adds that to props table

* adds sx prop

* adds changeset

* rm stray quotes and backticks

* Update .changeset/silly-humans-float.md

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

* shows variant prop as required in docs

* Update docs/content/FormControl.mdx

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

* adds sx prop to all child components

* lint fix

* adds sx prop to props tables

* uses FormControl in form component docs that render a label

Co-authored-by: Cole Bemis <colebemis@github.com>

docs/content/Textarea.mdx, after:

---
componentId: textarea
title: Textarea
description: Use Textarea for multi-line text input form fields
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/blob/main/src/Textarea.tsx
storybook: /react/storybook?path=/story/forms-textarea--default
---

import {Textarea} from '@primer/react'

<Box sx={{border: '1px solid', borderColor: 'border.default', borderRadius: 2, padding: 6, marginBottom: 3}}>
  <Textarea />
</Box>

```js
import {Textarea} from '@primer/react'
```

## Examples

<Note variant="warning">

Textarea components **must always** be accompanied by a corresponding label to improve support for assistive
technologies. Examples below are provided for conciseness and may not reflect accessibility best practices.

Use the [FormControl](/FormControl) component to render a Textarea with a corresponding label.

</Note>

### Controlled mode

```javascript live noinline
const TextareaExample = () => {
  // Running in controlled mode (recommended)
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState('')

  const handleChange = event => {
    setValue(event.target.value)
  }

  return <Textarea placeholder="Enter a description" onChange={handleChange} value={value} />
}

render(<TextareaExample />)
```

### Uncontrolled mode

```javascript live noinline
const TextareaExample = () => {
  const ref = React.useRef()

  const handleSubmit = event => {
    event.preventDefault()
    if (!ref.current.value) {
      alert(`Enter a value into the Textarea and press submit`)
      return
    }

    alert(`Current Textarea value: ${ref.current.value}`)
  }

  return (
    <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
      <Textarea
        cols={40}
        rows={8}
        ref={ref}
        defaultValue="Set the initial state in uncontrolled mode using the defaultValue prop"
      />
      <br />
      <Button type="submit">Submit</Button>
    </form>
  )
}

render(<TextareaExample />)
```

### Displaying form validation state

```jsx live
<>
  <Box as="label" htmlFor="success-state" sx={{display: 'block'}}>
    Success state:
  </Box>
  <Textarea id="success-state" validationStatus="success" />
  <Box as="label" htmlFor="error-state" sx={{display: 'block', mt: 5}}>
    Error state:
  </Box>
  <Textarea id="error-state" validationStatus="error" />
</>
```

### Inactive

```jsx live
<>
  <Textarea disabled>This text is inactive</Textarea>
</>
```

### Resize

By default, `Textarea` can be resized by the user vertically and horizontally. Resizing can be prevented by setting `resize` to `none`

```jsx live
<Textarea cols={40} resize="none" />
```

### Custom styling

```jsx live
<>
  <Textarea sx={{marginBottom: 2}} />
  <p>Custom styles like `margin` and `padding` can be applied using the `sx` prop</p>
</>
```

## Props

### Textarea

<PropsTable>
  <PropsTableRow
    name="required"
    type="boolean"
    description="Indicates to the user and assistive technologies that the field value is required"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="cols"
    type="number"
    description="Specifies the visible width of a text area."
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="rows"
    type="number"
    description="Specifies the visible height of a text area."
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="block"
    type="boolean"
    defaultValue="false"
    description="Expands with width of the component to fill the parent elements"
  />
  <PropsTableRow
    name="resize"
    type="'both' | 'horizontal' | 'vertical' | 'none'"
    defaultValue="'both'"
    description="Changes background color to a higher contrast color"
  />
  <PropsTableRow name="validationStatus"  
    type="'success' | 'error' | undefined" 
    description="Style the textarea to match the current form validation status"
  />
  <PropsTableRefRow
    elementType="textarea"
    refType="HTMLTextAreaElement"
  />
  <PropsTablePassthroughPropsRow
    elementName="textarea"
    passthroughPropsLink={
      <Link href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/textarea#attributes">MDN</Link>
    }
  />

</PropsTable>

## Status

<ComponentChecklist
  items={{
    propsDocumented: true,
    noUnnecessaryDeps: true,
    adaptsToThemes: true,
    adaptsToScreenSizes: true,
    fullTestCoverage: true,
    usedInProduction: false,
    usageExamplesDocumented: true,
    hasStorybookStories: true,
    designReviewed: false,
    a11yReviewed: false,
    stableApi: false,
    addressedApiFeedback: false,
    hasDesignGuidelines: false,
    hasFigmaComponent: false
  }}
/>
