docs/content/drafts/ActionMenu2.mdx, before:

---
title: ActionMenu v2
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/tree/main/src/ActionMenu
storybook: '/react/storybook?path=/story/composite-components-actionmenu2'
description: An ActionMenu is an ActionList-based component for creating a menu of actions that expands through a trigger button.
---

import {Box, Avatar} from '@primer/react'
import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
import {Props} from '../../src/props'

<br />

<Box sx={{border: '1px solid', borderColor: 'border.default', borderRadius: 2, padding: 6}}>
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Menu</ActionMenu.Button>
    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Copy link
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘C</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Quote reply
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘Q</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Edit comment
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘E</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Item variant="danger">
          Delete file
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘D</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
</Box>

<br />

```js
import {ActionMenu} from '@primer/react/drafts'
```

<br />

## Examples

### Minimal example

`ActionMenu` ships with `ActionMenu.Button` which is an accessible trigger for the overlay. It's recommended to compose `ActionList` with `ActionMenu.Overlay`

&nbsp;

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Menu</ActionMenu.Button>

    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item onSelect={event => console.log('New file')}>New file</ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>Copy link</ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>Edit file</ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Item variant="danger">Delete file</ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

### With a custom anchor

You can choose to have a different _anchor_ for the Menu dependending on the application's context.

&nbsp;

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Anchor>
      <ButtonInvisible aria-label="Open column options">
        <KebabHorizontalIcon />
      </ButtonInvisible>
    </ActionMenu.Anchor>

    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            <PencilIcon />
          </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
          Rename
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            <ArchiveIcon />
          </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
          Archive all cards
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item variant="danger">
          <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            <TrashIcon />
          </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
          Delete
        </ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

### With Groups

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Open column menu</ActionMenu.Button>

    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList showDividers>
        <ActionList.Group title="Live query">
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <SearchIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            repo:github/memex,github/github
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Group title="Layout" variant="subtle">
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <NoteIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Table
            <ActionList.Description variant="block">
              Information-dense table optimized for operations across teams
            </ActionList.Description>
          </ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.Item role="listitem">
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <ProjectIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Board
            <ActionList.Description variant="block">Kanban-style board focused on visual states</ActionList.Description>
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Group>
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <FilterIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Save sort and filters to current view
          </ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <FilterIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Save sort and filters to new view
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Group>
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <GearIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            View settings
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

### With External Anchor

To create an anchor outside of the menu, you need to switch to controlled mode for the menu and pass it as `anchorRef` to `ActionMenu`:

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

const Example = () => {
  const [open, setOpen] = React.useState(false)
  const anchorRef = React.createRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={anchorRef} onClick={() => setOpen(!open)}>
        {open ? 'Close Menu' : 'Open Menu'}
      </Button>

      <ActionMenu open={open} onOpenChange={setOpen} anchorRef={anchorRef}>
        <ActionMenu.Overlay>
          <ActionList>
            <ActionList.Item>Copy link</ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.Item>Quote reply</ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.Item>Edit comment</ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.Divider />
            <ActionList.Item variant="danger">Delete file</ActionList.Item>
          </ActionList>
        </ActionMenu.Overlay>
      </ActionMenu>
    </>
  )
}

render(<Example />)
```

### With Overlay Props

To create an anchor outside of the menu, you need to switch to controlled mode for the menu and pass it as `anchorRef` to `ActionMenu`:

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

const handleEscape = () => alert('you hit escape!')

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Open Actions Menu</ActionMenu.Button>
    <ActionMenu.Overlay width="medium" onEscape={handleEscape}>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Open current Codespace
          <ActionList.Description variant="block">
            Your existing Codespace will be opened to its previous state, and you&apos;ll be asked to manually switch to
            new-branch.
          </ActionList.Description>
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘O</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Create new Codespace
          <ActionList.Description variant="block">
            Create a brand new Codespace with a fresh image and checkout this branch.
          </ActionList.Description>
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘C</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

## Props / API reference

### ActionMenu

| Name         | Type                           | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| :----------- | :----------------------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children\*   | `React.ReactElement[]`         |    -    | Required. Recommended: `ActionMenu.Button` or `ActionMenu.Anchor` with `ActionMenu.Overlay`                              |
| open         | `boolean`                      |    -    | Optional. If defined, will control the open/closed state of the overlay. Must be used in conjuction with `onOpenChange`. |
| onOpenChange | `(open: boolean) => void`      |    -    | Optional. If defined, will control the open/closed state of the overlay. Must be used in conjuction with `open`.         |
| anchorRef    | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>` |    -    | Optional. Useful for defining an external anchor                                                                         |

### ActionMenu.Button

| Type                                    | Default | Description                                                                                                          |
| :-------------------------------------- | :-----: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ButtonProps](/Buttons#component-props) |    -    | Optional. You can pass all of the props that you would pass to a [`Button`](/Buttons) component like `variant`, `sx` |

### ActionMenu.Anchor

| Name       | Type                 | Default | Description                       |
| :--------- | :------------------- | :-----: | :-------------------------------- |
| children\* | `React.ReactElement` |    -    | Required. Accepts a single child. |

### ActionMenu.Overlay

| Name                                     | Type                  |       Default       | Description                                                                                   |
| :--------------------------------------- | :-------------------- | :-----------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children\*                               | `React.ReactElement[] | React.ReactElement` | Required. Recommended: [`ActionList`](/drafts/ActionList2)                                    |
| [OverlayProps](/Overlay#component-props) | -                     |          -          | Optional. Props to be spread on the internal [`AnchoredOverlay`](/AnchoredOverlay) component. |

## Further reading

[Interface guidelines: Action List + Menu](https://primer.style/design/components/action-list)

## Related components

- [ActionList](/drafts/ActionList2)
- [DropdownMenu](/DropdownMenu)
- [SelectPanel](/SelectPanel)

Commit message:

ActionMenu v2: Add a note about note using it for selection (#1674)
* Add note with a do-dont about selection

* remove redundant text

* typo!

* anchor href needs nested route

* simplify note about selection

docs/content/drafts/ActionMenu2.mdx, after:

---
title: ActionMenu v2
status: Alpha
source: https://github.com/primer/react/tree/main/src/ActionMenu
storybook: '/react/storybook?path=/story/composite-components-actionmenu2'
description: An ActionMenu is an ActionList-based component for creating a menu of actions that expands through a trigger button.
---

import {Box, Avatar} from '@primer/react'
import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
import {Props} from '../../src/props'

<br />

<Box sx={{border: '1px solid', borderColor: 'border.default', borderRadius: 2, padding: 6}}>
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Menu</ActionMenu.Button>
    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Copy link
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘C</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Quote reply
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘Q</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Edit comment
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘E</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Item variant="danger">
          Delete file
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘D</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
</Box>

<br />

```js
import {ActionMenu} from '@primer/react/drafts'
```

<br />

## Examples

### Minimal example

`ActionMenu` ships with `ActionMenu.Button` which is an accessible trigger for the overlay. It's recommended to compose `ActionList` with `ActionMenu.Overlay`

&nbsp;

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Menu</ActionMenu.Button>

    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item onSelect={event => console.log('New file')}>New file</ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>Copy link</ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>Edit file</ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Item variant="danger">Delete file</ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

### With a custom anchor

You can choose to have a different _anchor_ for the Menu dependending on the application's context.

&nbsp;

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Anchor>
      <ButtonInvisible aria-label="Open column options">
        <KebabHorizontalIcon />
      </ButtonInvisible>
    </ActionMenu.Anchor>

    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            <PencilIcon />
          </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
          Rename
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            <ArchiveIcon />
          </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
          Archive all cards
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item variant="danger">
          <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            <TrashIcon />
          </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
          Delete
        </ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

### With Groups

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Open column menu</ActionMenu.Button>

    <ActionMenu.Overlay>
      <ActionList showDividers>
        <ActionList.Group title="Live query">
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <SearchIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            repo:github/memex,github/github
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Group title="Layout" variant="subtle">
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <NoteIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Table
            <ActionList.Description variant="block">
              Information-dense table optimized for operations across teams
            </ActionList.Description>
          </ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.Item role="listitem">
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <ProjectIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Board
            <ActionList.Description variant="block">Kanban-style board focused on visual states</ActionList.Description>
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Group>
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <FilterIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Save sort and filters to current view
          </ActionList.Item>
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <FilterIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            Save sort and filters to new view
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
        <ActionList.Divider />
        <ActionList.Group>
          <ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.LeadingVisual>
              <GearIcon />
            </ActionList.LeadingVisual>
            View settings
          </ActionList.Item>
        </ActionList.Group>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

### With External Anchor

To create an anchor outside of the menu, you need to switch to controlled mode for the menu and pass it as `anchorRef` to `ActionMenu`:

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

const Example = () => {
  const [open, setOpen] = React.useState(false)
  const anchorRef = React.createRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={anchorRef} onClick={() => setOpen(!open)}>
        {open ? 'Close Menu' : 'Open Menu'}
      </Button>

      <ActionMenu open={open} onOpenChange={setOpen} anchorRef={anchorRef}>
        <ActionMenu.Overlay>
          <ActionList>
            <ActionList.Item>Copy link</ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.Item>Quote reply</ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.Item>Edit comment</ActionList.Item>
            <ActionList.Divider />
            <ActionList.Item variant="danger">Delete file</ActionList.Item>
          </ActionList>
        </ActionMenu.Overlay>
      </ActionMenu>
    </>
  )
}

render(<Example />)
```

### With Overlay Props

To create an anchor outside of the menu, you need to switch to controlled mode for the menu and pass it as `anchorRef` to `ActionMenu`:

```javascript live noinline
// import {ActionMenu, ActionList} from '@primer/react/drafts'
const {ActionMenu, ActionList} = drafts // ignore docs silliness; import like that ↑

const handleEscape = () => alert('you hit escape!')

render(
  <ActionMenu>
    <ActionMenu.Button>Open Actions Menu</ActionMenu.Button>
    <ActionMenu.Overlay width="medium" onEscape={handleEscape}>
      <ActionList>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Open current Codespace
          <ActionList.Description variant="block">
            Your existing Codespace will be opened to its previous state, and you&apos;ll be asked to manually switch to
            new-branch.
          </ActionList.Description>
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘O</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
        <ActionList.Item>
          Create new Codespace
          <ActionList.Description variant="block">
            Create a brand new Codespace with a fresh image and checkout this branch.
          </ActionList.Description>
          <ActionList.TrailingVisual>⌘C</ActionList.TrailingVisual>
        </ActionList.Item>
      </ActionList>
    </ActionMenu.Overlay>
  </ActionMenu>
)
```

<Note variant="warning">

Use `ActionMenu` to choose an action from a list. If you’re looking for single or multiple selection, use [DropdownMenu](/DropdownMenu) or [SelectPanel](/SelectPanel) instead.

</Note>

## Props / API reference

### ActionMenu

| Name         | Type                           | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| :----------- | :----------------------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children\*   | `React.ReactElement[]`         |    -    | Required. Recommended: `ActionMenu.Button` or `ActionMenu.Anchor` with `ActionMenu.Overlay`                              |
| open         | `boolean`                      |    -    | Optional. If defined, will control the open/closed state of the overlay. Must be used in conjuction with `onOpenChange`. |
| onOpenChange | `(open: boolean) => void`      |    -    | Optional. If defined, will control the open/closed state of the overlay. Must be used in conjuction with `open`.         |
| anchorRef    | `React.RefObject<HTMLElement>` |    -    | Optional. Useful for defining an external anchor                                                                         |

### ActionMenu.Button

| Type                                    | Default | Description                                                                                                          |
| :-------------------------------------- | :-----: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ButtonProps](/Buttons#component-props) |    -    | Optional. You can pass all of the props that you would pass to a [`Button`](/Buttons) component like `variant`, `sx` |

### ActionMenu.Anchor

| Name       | Type                 | Default | Description                       |
| :--------- | :------------------- | :-----: | :-------------------------------- |
| children\* | `React.ReactElement` |    -    | Required. Accepts a single child. |

### ActionMenu.Overlay

| Name                                     | Type                  |       Default       | Description                                                                                   |
| :--------------------------------------- | :-------------------- | :-----------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children\*                               | `React.ReactElement[] | React.ReactElement` | Required. Recommended: [`ActionList`](/drafts/ActionList2)                                    |
| [OverlayProps](/Overlay#component-props) | -                     |          -          | Optional. Props to be spread on the internal [`AnchoredOverlay`](/AnchoredOverlay) component. |

## Further reading

[Interface guidelines: Action List + Menu](https://primer.style/design/components/action-list)

## Related components

- [ActionList](/drafts/ActionList2)
- [DropdownMenu](/DropdownMenu)
- [SelectPanel](/SelectPanel)
